>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, MARCH 8:
THE LATEST FROM BAGHDAD AS IRAQI
FORCES LAUNCH AN OFFENSIVE
AGAINST ISIS.
WHY THE DIRECTOR OF THE C.I.A.
PLANS TO RESTRUCTURE THE AGENCY.
AND, IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
THE INCREASINGLY TENSE CLIMATE
FOR MUSLIMS IN FRANCE'S MOST
DIVERSE CITY.
>> (translated): IT'S GETTING
WORSE AND WORSE.
AND FRANKLY, I DON'T THINK IT'S
GOING TO GET BETTER.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT, ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
TIME IS RUNNING OUT FOR LEADERS
TO MAKE SOME KIND OF DEAL WITH
IRAN ABOUT ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TOLD CBS' "FACE
THE NATION" THAT WITHIN THE NEXT
MONTH OR SO, HIS ADMINISTRATION
NEEDS TO DETERMINE WHETHER
NEGOTIATORS CAN GET IRAN TO
TRULY AGREE TO A REASONABLE
DEAL.
>> IF WE ARE ABLE TO VERIFY THAT
IN FACT THEY ARE NOT DEVELOPING
WEAPONS SYSTEMS, THEN THERE'S A
DEAL TO BE HAD, BUT THAT'S GOING
TO REQUIRE THEM TO ACCEPT THE
KIND OF VERIFICATION AND
CONSTRAINTS ON THEIR PROGRAM
THAT SO FAR, AT LEAST, THEY HAVE
NOT BEEN WILLING TO SAY YES TO.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT TOP U.S.
LAWMAKERS ARE SPLIT OVER WHETHER
THE NEGOTIATIONS WILL SUCCEED AT
ALL.
>> LOOKS LIKE IT WILL LEAVE
INFRASTRUCTURE IN PLACE WITH ONE
OF THE WORST REGIMES IN THE
WORLD, THE FACT THAT THE
PRESIDENT DOESN'T SEEM TO WANT
CONGRESS TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS
UNDERSCORES WHAT A BAD DEAL IT
IS.
>> LET'S SEE WHAT THE
NEGOTIATION PRODUCES.
LET'S HOPE THERE'S AN
ALTERNATIVE TO WAR.
BUT AT THIS POINT WE DON'T KNOW.
>> Sreenivasan: THOUSANDS
MARCHED IN SELMA, ALABAMA THIS
AFTERNOON AS PART OF THE
CONTINUING COMMEMORATION OF THE
50th ANNIVERSARY OF THE "BLOODY
SUNDAY" CLASH BETWEEN STATE AND
LOCAL POLICE AND PEACEFUL
DEMONSTRATORS.
THE DAY BEGAN WITH A UNITY
BREAKFAST, FOLLOWED BY SERVICES
AT THE BROWN CHAPEL A.M.E.
CHURCH WHICH SERVED AS THE
STARTING POINT FOR THE SELMA-TO-
MONTGOMERY MARCHES IN 1965.
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
SPOKE THERE THIS MORNING.
>> HALF A CENTURY AGO, IT WAS
SAID THAT NOTHING COULD STOP THE
MARCHING FEET OF A DETERMINED
PEOPLE.
TODAY, 50 YEARS AFTER BLOODY
SUNDAY, WE STAND TOGETHER ONCE
AGAIN AS A PEOPLE.
WE ARE NO LESS DETERMINED.
AND WE WILL MARCH ON.
>> Sreenivasan: THE EVENTS IN
SELMA CONTINUE TOMORROW WITH A
MARCH FROM THE EDMUND PETTUS
BRIDGE TO MONTGOMERY.
THE CEREMONIES END FRIDAY WITH A
RALLY AT THE ALABAMA STATE
CAPITOL.
IN RUSSIA, A SUSPECT IN THE
ASSASSINATION OF PUTIN CRITIC
BORIS NEMTSOV REPORTEDLY BLEW
HIMSELF UP WITH A GRENADE AS
POLICE CLOSED IN ON HIM
OVERNIGHT.
ANOTHER HAS REPORTEDLY CONFESSED
TO TAKING PART IN NEMTSOV'S
MURDER.
THERE ARE FOUR OTHER SUSPECTS IN
CUSTODY WHO ARE DENYING ANY
INVOLVEMENT.
OFFICIALS SAY ALL OF THE
SUSPECTS HAVE TIES TO CHECHNYA.
IT'S BEEN EXACTLY ONE YEAR SINCE
MALAYSIA AIR FLIGHT 370
DISAPPEARED SOMEWHERE BETWEEN
KUALA LUMPUR AND BEIJING.
TODAY, OFFICIALS RELEASED A 584-
PAGE INTERIM REPORT ON THE
INVESTIGATION.
THE NEW REPORT SAYS THE BATTERY
THAT POWERED THE UNDERWATER
BEACON FOR THE PLANE'S FLIGHT
DATA RECORDER EXPIRED IN
DECEMBER 2012 AND MAY NOT HAVE
BEEN REPLACED, MAKING IT EVEN
HARDER TO FIND THE CRASH SITE.
THE PLANE VANISHED WITH 227
PASSENGERS AND 12 CREW MEMBERS
ON BOARD.
MALAYSIAN AND CHINESE OFFICIALS
ARE REASSURING THE VICTIMS'
FAMILIES THAT THE SEARCH WILL GO
ON.
A SECOND ATTACK IN AS MANY DAYS
HAS ROCKED U.N. OPERATIONS IN
MALI.
ATTACKERS FIRED MORE THAN 30
ROCKETS AND SHELLS AT THE U.N.
BASE IN THE NORTHEASTERN CITY OF
KIDAL THIS MORNING, KILLING
THREE PEOPLE AND WOUNDING 12
OTHERS.
JUST YESTERDAY, ISLAMIC
EXTREMISTS CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR OPENING FIRE
ON A RESTAURANT IN MALI'S
CAPITAL.
FIVE PEOPLE WERE KILLED THERE
AND NINE OTHERS WERE WOUNDED,
INCLUDING TWO SWISS SOLDIERS WHO
WERE WORKING FOR THE UNITED
NATIONS.
COLOMBIA'S GOVERNMENT HAS MADE
AN UNPRECEDENTED DEAL WITH FARC
REBELS.
BOTH SIDES HAVE AGREED TO WORK
TOGETHER TO REMOVE LANDMINES
THAT HAVE COVERED THE
COUNTRYSIDE SINCE THE 1960s.
COLOMBIA IS ONE OF THE MOST
HEAVILY MINED NATIONS IN THE
WORLD.
MINES HAVE KILLED OR INJURED
MORE THAN 11,000 PEOPLE IN THE
LAST 15 YEARS.
NEGOTIATORS CALL THE AGREEMENT A
GIANT STEP TOWARD MAKING PEACE.
PEOPLE FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD
ARE MARKING INTERNATIONAL
WOMEN'S DAY TODAY, WITH RALLIES,
PROTESTS AND PERFORMANCES.
IN NEW YORK, MEN AND WOMEN WITH
THE FDNY MARCHED FOR GENDER
EQUALITY IN MANHATTAN.
IN AFGHANISTAN, U.S. SOLDIERS
JOINED LOCAL WOMEN FOR A
CEREMONY IN KANDAHAR PROVINCE.
ARABIC WOMEN IN MOROCCO CARRIED
A BANNER DEMANDING DIGNITY,
FREEDOM, EQUALITY AND SOCIAL
JUSTICE.
MOST OF THE EVENTS HAVE BEEN
PEACEFUL, BUT CHINESE OFFICIALS
HAVE REPORTEDLY DETAINED AT
LEAST 10 WOMEN INVOLVED IN A
CAMPAIGN TO FIGHT SEXUAL
HARASSMENT ON PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION.
INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY DATES
BACK TO 1908 WHEN THOUSANDS OF
WOMEN MARCHED THROUGH NEW YORK
CITY DEMANDING BETTER PAY,
SHORTER HOURS AND VOTING RIGHTS.
>> Sreenivasan: IRAQI FORCES
HAVE BEEN MAKING SIGNIFICANT
HEADWAY AGAINST ISIS IN THE LAST
FEW DAYS, PUSHING EXTREMIST
FIGHTERS BACK OUT OF SOME OF THE
TERRITORY THEY SEIZED LAST YEAR.
ANNE BARNARD HAS BEEN REPORTING
FOR THE "NEW YORK TIMES" ON THE
FIGHTING AND THE RISING
POLITICAL TENSION.
SHE JOINS ME VIA SKYPE FROM
BAGHDAD.
WHAT IS THE LATEST ON THE
IRAQI FORCES' EFFORTS TO
TAKE BACK SOME OF THE GROUND
THAT ISIS GAINED LAST
SUMMER.
>> .
>> WELL, THE REPORTS THAT
THEY MOVED INTO ANOTHER
VILLAGE WHICH IS CLOSE TO
TIKRIT.
THE OFFENSIVE HAS BEEN GOING
FOR THE LAST WEEK, PERHAPS
MORE SLOWLY THAN EXPECTED,
BUT MOVING SUDDENLY AHEAD.
AND THERE'S ABOUT 32,000
TROOPS INVOLVED.
ISIS HAS BEEN ABLE TO HOLD
OUT AGAINST THEM IN THE
CENTER OF TIKRIT BUT THEY
LOST A NUMBER OF VILLAGES
AROUND TIKRIT AND TAMARA.
>> BY SOME MEASURES THIS IS
A SIGN OF SUCCESS.
IS THE IRAQI MILITARY READY
FOR THIS FIGHT NOW?
VERSUS IN OTHER TIMES WHERE
WE HAD REPORTS OF THEM
TURNING AWAY ON THE
BATTLEFIELD AND FLEEING?
>>.
>> WELL, WE WERE OUT ON THE
FRONT LINES THE OTHER DAY.
AND WE DEFINITELY SAW, I
WOULD SAY, A NEW LEVEL OF
ORGANIZATION AND ENTHUSIASM.
BUT I WOULDN'T SAY IT'S AS
OF THE IRAQI ARMY THAT IS
LEADING THE FIGHT AS THE
SHIITE PAR MILITARY
ORGANIZATION KNOWN AS THE
POPULAR MOBILIST-- COMMITTEE,
THE SHIITE MILITIAS WHICH
ARE CLOSELY TIED TO IRAN
WHICH ARE PROVIDING THE BULK
OF THE FIGHTERS.
AND THERE WAS A CALL THAT
WENT OUT FROM SHI'A CLERICS
ASKING EVERYONE TO COME AND
FIGHT ISIS.
AND THIS IS BASICALLY THE
VEHICLE AVAILABLE TO QUICKLY
MOBILIZE ALL THESE PEOPLE.
>> WITH THE PRESENCE OF ALL
THESE SHI'A MILITIAMEN HOW
DOES THAT AFFECT THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN IRAQ
AND THE UNITED STATES?
>> WELL, IT'S REALLY
SPARKING THE TENSIONS.
BECAUSE AMERICA HAS NOT
PROVIDED AIR STRIKES IN THIS
BATTLE THE WAY THEY HAD IN
PREVIOUS BATTLES.
WHEN WE WERE ON THE GROUND,
MILITIA LEADERS WERE
COMPLAINING BITTERLY ABOUT
THIS COMPLAINING THAT IRAN
WAS REALLY THE REAL FRIEND
OF IRAQ AND IRAN WAS
PROVIDING MUCH MORE
SIGNIFICANT HELP THROUGHOUT
THIS WAR THAN THE UNITED
STATES.
AT THE SAME TIME FOR THE
AMERICANS IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT TO WORK WITH
MILITIAS THAT MAY HAVE BEEN
INVOLVED WITH ATTACKS ON
AMERICAN TROOPS DURING THE
U.S. OCCUPATION HERE.
>> SO WHILE WE HEAR ABOUT
THESE BATTLES TAKING PLACE,
WE'RE ALSO IN THE WEST
SEEING THIS FOOTAGE OF ISIS
FORCES DESTROYING WORKS OF
ART AND PLACES OF CULTURAL
SIGNIFICANCE.
IS THERE ANYTHING THAT CAN
BE DONE TO STOP THAT?
>> UNFORTUNATELY, THERE'S
NOT MUCH THAT CAN BE DONE IN
AREAS THAT ISIS IS CURRENTLY
CONTROLLING.
SOME OF THE LEADERS OF THE
IRAQI CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS
HAVE ACTUALLY BEEN ASKING
FOR AIR STRIKES TO STOP THE
ADVANCES OF BULLDOZERS ON
THOSE SITES.
I DON'T THINK AMERICAN RULES
OF ENGAGEMENT CALL FOR
ATTACKING BULLDOZERS BUT ON
THE OTHER HAND PEOPLE SAY
THERE'S REALLY NO OTHER WAY
TO STOP THIS AT THE MOMENT.
OF COURSE, THERE ARE OTHER
THINGS THAT CAN BE DONE AND
ARE BEING WORKED ON NOW TO
TRY TO MITIGATE THESE KINDS
OF RISKS BY BETTER
DOCUMENTING THE VERY
VALUABLE ANCIENT SITES THAT
ARE ALL OVER IRAQ.
THAT IS ESSENTIALLY A WAY TO
RECOVER OBJECTS THAT MIGHT
GET LOOTED OR TO RECONSTRUCT
THINGS LATER.
BUT THERE ISN'T MUCH THAT
CAN BE DONE ON THE GROUND.
>> ANN BARNARD JOINING US
VIA SKYPE LIVE FROM BAGHDAD,
THANKS SO MUCH WILL
>> Sreenivasan: MANY PBS
STATIONS ARE TAKING TIME OUT
THIS WEEK TO ASK YOUR FOR YOUR
SUPPORT.
WITH THAT IN MIND, WE ARE
BRINGING YOU UPDATES TO SOME OF
OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENTS FROM THE
PAST FEW MONTHS.
TONIGHT, WE RETURN TO FRANCE-- A
COUNTRY THAT REMAINS ON HIGH
ALERT TWO MONTHS AFTER THE
TERRORISTS IN PARIS KILLED 17
PEOPLE.
THE ATTACKS, WHICH WERE CARRIED
OUT BY ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS,
FURTHER STRAINED THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN FRENCH
MUSLIMS AND THE REST OF FRENCH
SOCIETY.
MEGAN THOMPSON TRAVELED TO
MARSEILLE IN DECEMBER AND
UPDATES HER STORY.
>> Reporter: THIS PORT CITY OF
AROUND 850,000 IS FRANCE'S
SECOND LARGEST, AND ONE OF ITS
MOST DIVERSE.
LOCATED ON FRANCE'S SOUTHERN
MEDITERRANEAN SHORE, MARSEILLE
IS HOME TO TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
IMMIGRANTS FROM THROUGHOUT
EUROPE AND MORE RECENTLY, NORTH
AFRICA.
BY SOME ESTIMATES, THE CITY IS
NOW 30% TO 40% MUSLIM, ONE OF
THE HIGHEST CONCENTRATIONS OF
MUSLIMS ANYWHERE IN THIS
OVERWHELMINGLY CATHOLIC COUNTRY.
ALWAYS A MELTING POT, MARSEILLE
HASN'T SEEN THE RIOTS OR
VIOLENCE THAT HAVE BROKEN OUT IN
OTHER PARTS OF FRANCE IN RECENT
YEARS.
BUT EVEN BEFORE THE JANUARY
ATTACKS IN PARIS THAT SHOOK THE
NATION-- FIRST AT THE SATIRICAL
NEWSPAPER CHARLIE HEBDO, AND
THEN, AT A KOSHER MARKET--
TENSIONS IN MARSEILLE BETWEEN
MUSLIMS AND NON-MUSLIMS HAD BEEN
RISING.
>> (translated): IT'S AWFULLY
COMPLICATED, ALL OF THIS.
WITH THE ARRIVAL OF THE
FOREIGNERS WHO HAVE CHANGED
EVERYTHING IN THE TOWN OF
MARSEILLE.
>> Reporter: RETIRED
PHOTOGRAPHER CLAUDE DE GARAM HAS
LIVED IN MARSEILLE HIS ENTIRE
LIFE.
HE SAID HE'S FELT THINGS CHANGE
OVER THE YEARS.
>> (translated): BEFORE,
EVERYONE KNEW EACH OTHER.
EVEN THE FIRST IMMIGRANTS IN
MARSEILLE, THE ITALIANS,
SPANISH, ALL OF THAT, IT ALL
WORKED FINE.
PERHAPS BECAUSE IT WAS THE SAME
RELIGION.
BUT WHAT CAME AFTER, IT'S A LOT
MORE COMPLICATED.
LESS INTEGRATED.
THE OLD MARSEILLAIS ARE ANNOYED
TO HAVE PEOPLE WHO COME AND
BOTHER THEM IN THEIR HOMETOWN.
BECAUSE WE HAVE OUR WAYS.
AND THE NEW ARRIVALS FEEL NOT
WELL ACCEPTED AND SO YOU FEEL
THEIR HATRED INCREASING.
YOU CAN SEE IT IN THE BUSES.
THERE ARE FIGHTS, AND THAT
DIDN'T HAPPEN BEFORE.
>> Reporter: DE GARAM SAID HE'S
NOT SURE WHAT THE FUTURE HOLDS.
>> (translated): WE DON'T KNOW
WHERE WE ARE GOING, BUT WE CAN
FEEL THAT IT'S NOT TOWARDS
PEACE.
THERE'S A FEELING OF UNEASINESS.
>> (translated): YES, THERE
ARE PROBLEMS OF ISLAMOPHOBIA.
IN MY OPINION, IT'S HAPPENING
MORE AND MORE.
>> Reporter: AS WE TRAVELED
AROUND MARSEILLE, WE SPOKE TO
MANY FRENCH MUSLIMS WHO TOLD US
THEY'VE SEEN THINGS CHANGE HERE,
TOO.
LIKE OUR TAXI DRIVER, AZIZ, WHO
WAS BORN IN MARSEILLE TO
TUNISIAN PARENTS.
WE HEARD ABOUT FRENCH-BORN
MUSLIMS FEELING LIKE THEY WERE
SOMETIMES CONSIDERED FOREIGNERS.
WE ALSO HEARD COMPLAINTS ABOUT
JOB DISCRIMINATION, AND FEELING
SINGLED OUT BY POLITICIANS.
>> (translated): EVERY PUBLIC
OFFICIAL, WHENEVER THERE'S AN
ELECTION, THEIR NUMBER ONE ISSUE
IS ISLAM.
BUT I JUST GAVE YOU A LITTLE
TOUR AND ALMOST HALF THE PEOPLE
WHO LIVE HERE ARE MUSLIM.
AND I DON'T THINK YOU SAW
ANYTHING DIFFERENT FROM OTHER
NEIGHBORHOODS.
EVERYBODY LIVES NORMALLY.
>> Reporter: AZIZ WAS SHOWING US
AROUND A LOWER-INCOME SECTION OF
NORTH MARSEILLE.
OUTSIDE A MOSQUE AFTER FRIDAY
PRAYERS WE MET SEVERAL MEN WHO
WERE VERY SUSPICIOUS OF OUR
CAMERA.
MEDY, A FRENCH-BORN MUSLIM OF
ALGERIAN DESCENT, WAS THE ONLY
ONE WHO'D TALK.
HE EXPLAINED MANY MUSLIMS FEEL
THEY'RE PORTRAYED UNFAIRLY BY
THE MEDIA.
>> (translated): THEY ARE
ALWAYS TRYING TO SAY ISLAM IS
TERRORISTS.
EVERY TIME WITH OUR RELIGION.
SO IT ANNOYS ME.
THEY ARE NOT TELLING THE TRUTH.
>> (translated): THERE ARE LOT
OF VERBAL INSULTS.
THE STARES, PEOPLE IN THE
STREETS LOOKING AT ME.
>> Reporter: NATHALIE BENSILLA
LIVES ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
MARSEILLE.
SHE WAS ALSO BORN IN FRANCE, THE
DAUGHTER OF AN ALGERIAN
IMMIGRANT.
SHE CONVERTED TO ISLAM IN HER
EARLY 20s AND IS NOW MARRIED TO
THE IMAM OF THE MOSQUE WE
VISITED.
THE MOTHER OF SEVEN SAID ONCE OR
TWICE A MONTH SHE'S RIDICULED
BECAUSE SHE WEARS A HEADSCARF.
SHE ALSO SAID SHE'S BEEN
EXCLUDED FROM HER CHILDREN'S
SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS, AND BACK IN
2012 SHE HAD A CONFRONTATION IN
A STORE.
>> (translated): A WOMAN TORE
INTO ME, REALLY INSULTED ME.
SHE SAID YOU'VE REJECTED OUR
ORIGIN.
BECAUSE SHE KNEW THAT I'M
FRENCH, BECAUSE I TOLD HER.
SHE REALLY INSULTED ME WITH ALL
THESE NAMES.
SHE ALMOST HIT ME.
>> Reporter: BENSILLA SAID SHE
REPORTED THE INCIDENT TO THE
POLICE, BUT NOTHING HAPPENED.
ACCORDING TO A NATIONAL MUSLIM
ADVOCACY GROUP IN FRANCE, AFTER
THE PARIS ATTACKS, THE NUMBER OF
ISLAMOPHOBIC ACTS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY INCREASED BY 70%,
COMPARED TO THE SAME TIME PERIOD
LAST YEAR.
>> (translated): IT DOESN'T
BOTHER ME.
I IGNORE THEM.
BUT, WHEN YOU HAVE YOUR KIDS
WITH YOU AND SOMEONE INSULTS
YOU, IT'S DEGRADING.
AND FRANKLY WHEN IT HAPPENS ON
THE STREET IT'S HARD TO JUSTIFY
IT TO THE KIDS, THEY DON'T
UNDERSTAND.
MY SON, HE SAYS, WHEN I'M BIG,
I'M GOING TO FIGHT THESE PEOPLE
IF THEY TALK TO YOU THAT WAY.
AND I SAY, YOU CAN'T RESPOND TO
AGGRESSION WITH AGGRESSION.
>> Reporter: WHY DO YOU THINK
PEOPLE TREAT YOU THIS WAY?
>> (translated): I REALLY, I
THINK IT'S FEAR OF THE OTHER.
AND ALSO LACK OF UNDERSTANDING
OF OUR RELIGION.
ALSO I THINK THAT MUSLIMS DON'T
MAKE ENOUGH EFFORT TO REACH OUT
AND TO EXPLAIN THE FUNDAMENTALS
OF OUR RELIGION.
THAT THERE IS A LOT OF RESPECT
FOR OTHERS.
>> (translated): I WOULD LIKE
TO REMIND PEOPLE THAT FRANCE IS
A CHRISTIAN COUNTRY, WITH AN
IDENTITY, A CULTURE.
>> Reporter: STÉPHANE RAVIER IS
THE MAYOR OF THE POOR NORTHERN
SECTION OF MARSEILLE THAT WE
VISITED.
HE'S ALSO A MEMBER OF FRANCE'S
FAR-RIGHT PARTY, THE NATIONAL
FRONT.
LAST YEAR, HE MADE HISTORY,
BECOMING ONE OF THE FIRST
POLITICIANS FROM THAT PARTY EVER
ELECTED TO THE FRENCH SENATE.
THE NATIONAL FRONT IS KNOWN FOR
TOUGH TALK ON IMMIGRATION,
SECURITY AND ISLAM, AND ITS HARD
LINE ON SECULARISM, WHICH HAS
OFFENDED MEMBERS OF THE MUSLIM
COMMUNITY.
RAVIER ONCE INTERRUPTED A MUSLIM
WEDDING BECAUSE THE BRIDE'S FACE
WAS COVERED A VIOLATION OF
FRENCH LAW.
>> (translated): WE HAVE AN
IDENTITY, BUT WE ALSO HAVE LAWS.
FRENCH LAW FORBIDS TO ANYONE TO
BE ENTIRELY VEILED.
SO, I HAVE ONLY APPLIED THE LAW.
SO I'M TELLING THE FRENCH
MUSLIMS AND THE MUSLIMS IN
GENERAL YOU HAVE A RIGHT TO LIVE
YOUR RELIGION, BUT DON'T FORGET
THAT HERE IT IS FRENCH SOIL, AND
IN FRANCE, AS IT IS DONE AROUND
THE WORLD, WE ALSO HAVE TO
RESPECT RELIGIONS AND RITUALS,
CUSTOMS, CODES.
SO THERE IS ISLAM AND THERE IS
ISLAMISM, WHICH IS GROWING
>> Reporter: EVEN BEFORE THE
TERROR ATTACKS IN PARIS, THE
NATIONAL FRONT WAS GAINING
GROUND IN FRANCE AMIDST GROWING
CONCERNS ABOUT THE ECONOMY AND
SECURITY.
FRENCH OFFICIALS HAVE ESTIMATED
MORE THAN 1,000 PEOPLE HAVE
LEFT, OR PLAN TO LEAVE FRANCE,
TO WAGE JIHAD IN SYRIA AND IRAQ.
>> (translated): MASSIVE
IMMIGRATION IS CAUSING
ISLAMIZATION.
WE CAN SEE THAT THERE ARE SOME
EXTREMIST ELEMENTS AT THE HEART.
THEY ARE VERY ACTIVE.
AND THE FRENCH AUTHORITIES ARE
COMPLETELY FROZEN BECAUSE THEY
FEAR BEING LABELED ISLAMOPHOBIC.
THESE SMALL GROUPS OF ISLAMISTS
WITHIN THE HEART OF ISLAM ARE
VERY ACTIVE AND THOSE ARE THE
ONES THAT I WANT TO FIGHT.
>> Reporter: SINCE THE ATTACKS,
THE POPULARITY OF THE NATIONAL
FRONT HAS GROWN EVEN MORE.
THE PARTY'S LEADER CAME IN FIRST
IN A RECENT POLL OF POTENTIAL
CANDIDATES IN THE 2017
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
WE RECENTLY CAUGHT UP WITH
AMBROISE BOULEIS, A TELEVISION
JOURNALIST IN MARSEILLE, WHO
SAID IT'S A SURPRISING
DEVELOPMENT FOR A PARTY ONCE
CONSIDERED FRINGE.
>> THEY ARE DOING VERY WELL.
AND PART OF THE EXPLANATION
MIGHT BE THAT THE ATTACKS
BROUGHT BACK, ON THE SCENE,
THEIR FAVORITE TOPICS.
IMMIGRATION, NATIONAL SECURITY.
THOSE ARE THE CORE OF THEIR
POLITICAL PROGRAM.
>> Reporter: AS FOR THE CLIMATE
IN MARSEILLE AFTER THE ATTACKS,
BOULEIS SAID, INITIALLY IT WAS
QUITE TENSE.
BUT HE TOLD US THE PUBLIC
RESPONSE WAS MORE TEPID HERE
THAN IN OTHER MAJOR FRENCH
CITIES, WHERE HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS MARCHED IN THE
STREETS.
BOULEIS EXPLAINED THAT WHILE
MANY MUSLIMS CONDEMNED THE
VIOLENCE, THEY WERE ALSO
OFFENDED BY THE CARTOONS OF
MOHAMMAD PUBLISHED IN THE PAPER
CHARLIE HEBDO.
>> MANY OF THEM DECIDED NOT TO
GO OUT, DECIDED NOT TO
PARTICIPATE IN THIS PUBLIC
GRIEF.
THEY DECIDED NOT TO SAY, "I AM
CHARLIE," LIKE EVERYONE SAID
THIS DAY.
BUT SOME OF THEM CHOSE TO SAY,"
I AM NOT CHARLIE."
BECAUSE FOR THEM, SUPPORTING
CHARLIE HEBDO WAS SUPPORTING THE
CARICATURES OF MOHAMMAD THAT THE
SATIRICAL JOURNAL HAD PUBLISHED.
MANY MUSLIMS HAVE FELT
STIGMATIZED AS WELL.
BECAUSE THE THREE TERRORISTS
CALLED THEMSELVES ISLAM
DEFENDERS.
SO IT LED SOME PEOPLE TO
CONFLATE IN A WAY, ISLAM AND
TERRORISM.
AND THERE WERE SOME VERY RACIST
RANTS ON THE INTERNET.
SO, A LARGE PART OF THE MUSLIM
COMMUNITY WAS VERY DEEPLY HURT.
>> Reporter: IT'S ALL BEEN A
BLOW TO AN ALREADY TENSE
SITUATION IN MARSEILLE.
AS FOR THE FUTURE?
EVEN BEFORE THE ATTACKS, THERE
SEEMED TO BE LITTLE OPTIMISM.
>> (translated): I THINK THAT
WE'LL NEED A FEW GENERATIONS TO
GET USED TO IT.
ME, I WON'T BE HERE.
BUT MY KIDS, I THINK THEY WILL
BE EXPERIENCING SOME TOUGH
MOMENTS.
>> (translated): IT'S GETTING
WORSE AND WORSE.
AND FRANKLY, I DON'T THINK IT'S
GOING TO GET BETTER.
I DON'T THINK IT'S GOING TO GET
BETTER.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT'S DRIVING
SOME EUROPEAN MUSLIMS TO
EXTREMISM?
WATCH JUDY WOODRUFF'S INTERVIEW
WITH THE DIRECTOR OF THE
INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR THE
STUDY OF RADICALIZATION IN
LONDON.
VISIT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: C.I.A. DIRECTOR
JOHN BRENNAN ANNOUNCED FRIDAY
THAT HE IS ORDERING SWEEPING
REFORMS DESIGNED TO DRAMATICALLY
CHANGE THE AGENCY, STARTING AT
THE TOP.
BUT EXACTLY WHAT IS CHANGING AND
WHY?
YESTERDAY I SPOKE WITH
ASSOCIATED PRESS INTELLIGENCE
REPORTER KEN DILANIAN.
WHY DID THE CIA DIRECTOR
FEEL THESE CHANGES WERE
NECESSARY IN THE FIRST PLACE?
>> WELL, I'M NOT SURE HE'S
GOING TO BE COMPLETELY
LEVELING WITH US ABOUT THAT.
BUT I CAN SAY THAT IT COMES
AMID THE BACKDROP OF A
SERIES OF INTELLIGENCE
FAILURES WHERE THE CIA HAS
NOT PREDICTED MAJOR GLOBAL
DEVELOPMENTS.
WHETHER YOU WANT TO TALK
ABOUT WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION IN IRAQ OR THE
MOVEMENT OF RUSSIAN TROOPS
IN THE U. UKRAINE OR THE
RAPID RISE OF THE --
>> THERE IS A FELLING THAT
SINCE THE CIA HAS DONE
INCREDIBLY WELL
SINCE 9/11 THERE ARE ALSO
SOME GAPS.
AND THE WORLD IS CHANGING A
LOT.
SO DIRECTOR BRENNAN
ASSEMBLED A GROUP OF EXPERTS
AND INTERNAL PEOPLE AND
LOOKED FOR THREE MONTHS
INTENSIVELY AT THE AGENCY'S
FUNCTIONS AND CAME UP WITH
THIS PLAN.
>> SO ONE OF THE SUGGESTIONS
WAS TO BREAK DOWN THE LAW
THAT EXISTS BETWEEN THE
ANALYSTS AND THE OPERATORS.
AND TO MOST OF US, I DIDN'T
REALIZE THERE WAS THAT WALL
IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> RIGHT.
AND THAT IS FUNDAMENTAL.
THAT IS THE BIGGEST CHANGE
BRENNAN IS IMPLEMENTING
HERE.
THAT IS FUNDAMENTAL TO THE
AGENCY'S CHARACTER.
SINCE IT WAS CREATED IN
1947.
THE OPERATORS ARE PEOPLE WHO
RECRUIT SPIES, WHO RUN
COVERT OPERATIONS.
AND THEY HAVE THEIR OWN
BOSSES.
THEY WORK IN THEIR OWN
OFFICES FOR THE MOST PART.
AND THE ANALYSTS ARE
DIFFERENT, THEY'RE MORE LIKE
COLLEGE PROFESSORS, THEY
TAKE THE INTELLIGENCE
COLLECTED BY THE OPERATORS
AND INTERPRET IT AND WRITE
PAPERS THAT ARE COLLECTED BY
THE PRESIDENT.
THERE ARE PART OF THE CIA
INCLUDING NOW, THE
COUNTERTERRORISM CENTER THAT
IS-- BUT FOR THE MOST PART
THEY DON'T WORK TOGETHER.
AND UNDER THIS CHANGE THEY
WOULD BEGIN WORKING TOGETHER,
IN TEN SO-CALLED CENTERS
WHICH WOULD SORT OF EITHER
BE GEOGRAPHIC AREAS OF THE
WORLD OR IN SOME CASES
SUBJECT AREAS LIKE
COUNTERPROLIFERATION.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT WHAT WAS
THE RATIONALE BEHIND KEEPING
THESE TEAMS SEPARATE?
>> WELL, I MEAN, THERE'S A
SCHOOL OF THOUGHT THAT SAYS
ANALYSTS ARE MORE OBJECTIVE
WHEN THEY ARE NOT-- WHEN
THEY ARE NOT WORKING CLOSELY
WITH THE COLLECTOR.
BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT TO
HAVE A STAKE IN THE
INTELLIGENCE OR THE
OPERATION.
THEY JUST WANT TO CALL IF AS
THEY SEE IT BUT OTHERS HAVE
SAID, LOOK, WE'RE NOT SEEING
VERY MUCH OF A COMPROMISE OF
OBJECTIVITY IN AREAS WHERE
ANALYSTS AND OPERATORS DO
WORK TOGETHER SO WE'RE NOT
SO CONCERNED ABOUT THAT
PROBLEM.
BUT THEY ARE VERY DIFFERENT
DISCIPLINES.
OPERATORS ARE THE ONES THAT
GO TO THE FARM AND GET
TRAINED AND SPY, TRADE CRAFT,
SURVEILLANCE DETECTION AND
ALL OF THAT.
ANALYSTS WORK IN OFFICES FOR
THE MOST PART I'M
GENERALIZING AND THE
INTELLIGENCE.
SINCE 9/11 ANALYSTS HAVE
BEEN DEPLOYED MORE OFF TONE
WAR ZONES AND THERE HAS BEEN
A COMINGLING AND THIS IS THE
ULTIMATE RESULT OF THAT.
>> AND WHAT ABOUT THIS FOCUS
ON CYBERTHREATS.
WHAT DOES HE PLAN TO DO?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY
THE CIA DOES A LOT OF
HACKING AND CYBERSTUFF NOW.
BUT WHAT HE IS DOING IS
SETTING UP A DIRECTORATE
WHICH IS THE EQUIVALENT,
DIRECTORATE OF OPERATIONS,
WE JUST TALKED ABOUT AND
DIRECTOR OF INTELLIGENCE.
THIS WOULD BE A DIRECTORATE
FOR SIGN THEIR WOULD LOOK
FOR THAT ACROSS THE AGENCY
AND TRYING TO UP THEIR GAME
IN TERMS OF HACKING, WHETHER
IT'S HACKING INTO A PASS
WORE DATABASE TO PROTECT AN
ALIASES OR TRYING TO GET
INFORMATION ABOUT THE
ISLAMIC STATE IN SYRIA WHERE
THEY CAN'T GO IN.
SO THERE'S A FEELING THAT,
YOU KNOW, THEY NEED TO SORT
OF GET WITH THE TIMES AND
REALLY ENHANCE THEIR
CYBERCAPABILITY AND THIS IS
ONE WAY TO DO THAT.
>> KEN DILANIAN, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANKS, HARI.
>> Sreenivasan: BEFORE WE
LEAVE YOU TONIGHT, ALABAMA
GOVERNOR ROBERT BENTLEY IS
REPORTEDLY SENDING ADDITIONAL
STATE LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS
TO SELMA TO HELP WITH CROWD
CONTROL.
ACCORDING TO NBC STATION
WSFA SELMA'S MAYOR SAID 80,000
PEOPLE SHOWED UP FOR TODAY'S
BRIDGE CROSSING CEREMONY.
HERE IS A LOOK AT WHAT IS
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR
TOMORROW.
>> WE'RE HERE IN SELMA,
ALABAMA, WHERE PEOPLE CAME
TO THE STREETS THIS WEEKEND,
INCLUDING TWO PRESIDENTS,
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND
REGULAR FOLKS, TO COMMEMORATE
THE 50th ANNIVERSARY OF THE
SELMA TO MONTGOMERY MARCH.
BUT THAT WAS 50 YEARS AGO.
WHAT ABOUT NOW AND WHAT ABOUT
THE FUTURE?
THAT'S THE STORY WE'LL TELL
TOMORROW NIGHT ON THE
NEWSHOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT'S IT
FOR THIS EDITION OF PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.